THE rapid shift in both consumer behaviour and the digitalisation of businesses has not only spiked demand for delivery services but also nudged the latter to evolve.
Courier companies, at least those that are competitive, are fast seeking ways to make their deliveries faster, safer and more reliable. GDEX Bhd lays claim to being one of the first courier companies to tap into the e-commerce boom, way before the current coronavirus pandemic began.
It has created myGDEX, an online shipping platform and a cloud-based call centre as well as an interactive voice response (IVR) support system. GDEX had also developed platforms such as deKat, a social commerce supply chain platform for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and a last-mile delivery platform (KITA) targeted at that segment too.
GDEX managing director and group CEO Teong Teck Lean (pic below) expects the boom in e-commerce to continue, driven by migration of businesses from offline to online, especially in the business-to-business (B2B) segment. This will continue to be the driver for GDEX’s parcel volume growth, moving forward.
“Our digital initiatives will make Gdex more cost-efficient without compromising on service quality. Gdex will come out with more product offerings and expand into new revenue streams, ” he tells StarBizWeek.The new platforms such myGDEX would not only strengthen the group’s operations but will also allow GDEX to tap into the business-to-consumer (B2C) and consumer-to-consumer (C2C) segments, Teong points out.
“While the B2B segment is the company’s bread and butter, we foresee B2C and C2C to register higher growth as compared to the B2B segment. “We also plan to grow our warehouse fulfilment business, which offers customised end-to-end solutions. “We will continue to develop new products to cater for new trends, especially in the social commerce space, ” Teong says.
In December, GDEX partnered with Tasco Bhd to create a comprehensive logistics service as both companies have different strengths. Both companies have signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding (MoU) to finalise this plan. Tasco will be given the priority to leverage GDEX’s last-mile fulfilment capabilities, while GDEX can tap into Tasco’s international logistics network as well as its local cold supply chain infrastructure and convenience retail logistics network.
Interestingly, Tasco, which is a leading cold-chain logistics player, has said that it is ready to support the local distribution of Covid-19 vaccines. When asked if GDEX sees a potential collaboration with Tasco for vaccine logistics, Teong says: “We are open to that if the opportunity arises. With our extensive network and system in place, we believe we can assist the government in distributing the vaccines provided that the packages meet our delivery requirements.” GDEX currently handles the transporting of time-sensitive medical samples for chains of hospitals and clinics.
Teong says that for this year, GDEX has allocated between RM20mil and RM30mil to upgrade the facilities at its hubs and for IT development. Both Tasco and GDEX have companies from Japan as their major shareholders. Tasco is a 55.38%-owned subsidiary of Japan’s Yusen Logistics Co Ltd, while Japan-based express delivery giant Yamato Holdings Co Ltd holds a 22.83% stake in GDEX.
The collaboration with Tasco could also help GDEX face the massive competition in the delivery segment, which has led to price wars. To date, there are 110 licensed courier companies in the country. However, the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission has recently announced a two-year freeze on the issuance of new courier service licences. GDEX is in a net cash position of close to RM80mil, with almost zero borrowings.
For the first quarter ended Sept 30,2020, GDEX posted a 51% rise in net profit to RM7.2mil from RM4.8mil a year earlier due to increasing demand from online business activities. Its logistics and warehousing services also did well. The group also attributed the growth to its operational efficiencies as a result of the digitalisation of internal systems and processes.
Teong expects the e-commerce industry to continue growing post-pandemic and that the company’s digital initiatives will make GDEX more cost-efficient without compromising on its service quality. “We aim to become known as a digital company, ” he says.

KUALA LUMPUR (Dec 8): GD Express Carrier Bhd (GDEX) and Tasco Bhd have inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to enhance logistics delivery services between end consumers in Malaysia with domestic and international destinations.
Both parties told Bursa Malaysia that under the MoU, they will develop and organise joint marketing activities utilising the network and capabilities of both entities; build on each other’s strengths and comparative advantages, particularly to advance the development of seamless connectivity between e-commerce platforms and other social commerce platforms with logistics fulfilment services; and enhance knowledge sharing with a view to foster improved coordination and synergies.
The mutual benefits that are expected to accrue from this collaboration include the ability to set industry-leading standards in logistics fulfilment services for both parties’ customers, said the companies.
Tasco is able to leverage GDEX’s last-mile fulfilment capabilities as well as cooperation with its strategic partners, namely Yamato Holdings Co Ltd and Singapore Post Ltd, as well as its presence in Indonesia via PT Satria Antaran Prima Tbk and in Vietnam via Noi Bai Express and Trading Joint Stock Company, while GDEX is able to tap into Tasco’s international logistics network, as well as its local cold supply chain infrastructure as well as convenience retail logistics network, they explained.
Both parties will also benefit from greater e-commerce integration between Tasco’s fulfilment solutions offering “e-Tower” with GDEX’s online shipping platform “myGDEX”, allowing coverage of major e-marketplaces and web stores to be integrated with express courier services.
They added that they will also benefit from greater marketing opportunities for both parties to new and existing multinational businesses through the provision of a wider range of logistics fulfilment services, and facilitate sharing of resources and increase economies of scale.
Both parties opined that the MoU serves as an opportunity for the companies to achieve the shared vision of enhanced and seamless logistics delivery services for customers.
“This collaboration is also expected to open up new areas of cooperation for greater marketing activities and business development, as well as cater for more complex logistics demand for customers who require, for example, inventory management, shorter delivery lead time, e-marketplace management and possibly temperature-controlled shipments,” they said.
In a separate statement, Tasco’s chief executive officer (CEO) Andy Lee said the expansion of last-mile logistics capability in Malaysia through the tie-up with GDEX will be a new growth driver for Tasco.
“We can better synergise our resources, especially in serving the 3,000 petrol kiosks and convenience retail outlets throughout the country, as well as providing a new avenue to market other services of Tasco, such as the cold supply chain logistics services,” he added
GDEX’s CEO and managing director Teong Teck Lean also said, “The team-up with Tasco and to be able to ride on the platform of e-Tower and our digital platform myGDEX, allowing the integration of the upstream and downstream resources along the logistics supply chain will give us the ability to provide a better express delivery experience for our customers.”
GDEX closed 2.5 sen or 5.88% higher at 45 sen, valuing the company at RM2.54 billion. Meanwhile, Tasco closed 35 sen or 14.4% higher at RM2.78, valuing the company at RM556 million.

KUALA LUMPUR (April 26): GDEX Bhd aims to be a pure-play last-mile delivery company with regional presence.
It will also start to look into investment in real assets, such as land and warehouses, and potentially create an industrial real estate investment trust (REIT) in future.
GDEX on Dec 22, 2020 changed its official name from GD Express Carrier Bhd to GDEX Bhd to mark a new growth phase of the group.
In line with the rebranding exercise, GDEX said it wants to transform its current business while building more core businesses to ensure the growth trajectory of the group.
In a corporate presentation following the name change, GDEX said it will accelerate growth in both organic and inorganic ways to create value for all stakeholders.
GDEX said to fuel the growth of the group, it will develop more new products and business segments, adding that digital and technology competency are the focus for developments.
On its new products offerings, GDEX said it aims to provide more comprehensive digital solutions for customers.
The firm said to build new business segments, it plans to create additional revenue streams and profit centres to drive the growth of the group.
GDEX said investment for inorganic growth includes strengthening the current core business by investing in strategic areas.
The firm said it will focus on its cash flow and profitability.
It said it will expand its business portfolio inorganically to accelerate growth.
GDEX explained it will expand further in the logistics sector by moving into forwarding services, customs clearance and the cold chain, which are very synergistic with the last-mile business.
From there, the group can further expand into the land, air and sea cargo business, it said.
In a text message to the theedgemarkets.com, GDEX managing director and group chief executive officer (CEO) Teong Teck Lean said the remodelling of the group will be similar to in the early 2000s.
“We want to be high-growth again,” he said.
When Teong Teck Lean became the CEO of fledgling courier outfit in 2000, it was an ailing company running at a loss, with a lack of self-belief and low morale even among its shareholders.
Teong said technology is very key to the group’s future expansion.
He explained that with the in-house-built IT department, and investment in Web Bytes, the group can expand the business into the technology solution development segment.
“With presence in the region, our know-how in supply chain management and our strength in IT, the group can expand into cross-border remittance and even look into the financing business to assist our customers.
“These are financial-sector related,” he said.
Teong said with the infrastructure built across various segments of business, GDEX can offer a very comprehensive service to customers.
“GDEX can distribute consumer lines of products, such as healthcare products, communications equipment/parts and other consumer products, in the region,” he said.
At 9.48am, GDEX had risen 1.28% or half a sen to 39.5 sen, valuing it at RM2.23 billion.