KUALA LUMPUR (Dec 8): GD Express Carrier Bhd (GDEX) and Tasco Bhd have inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to enhance logistics delivery services between end consumers in Malaysia with domestic and international destinations.
Both parties told Bursa Malaysia that under the MoU, they will develop and organise joint marketing activities utilising the network and capabilities of both entities; build on each other’s strengths and comparative advantages, particularly to advance the development of seamless connectivity between e-commerce platforms and other social commerce platforms with logistics fulfilment services; and enhance knowledge sharing with a view to foster improved coordination and synergies.
The mutual benefits that are expected to accrue from this collaboration include the ability to set industry-leading standards in logistics fulfilment services for both parties’ customers, said the companies.
Tasco is able to leverage GDEX’s last-mile fulfilment capabilities as well as cooperation with its strategic partners, namely Yamato Holdings Co Ltd and Singapore Post Ltd, as well as its presence in Indonesia via PT Satria Antaran Prima Tbk and in Vietnam via Noi Bai Express and Trading Joint Stock Company, while GDEX is able to tap into Tasco’s international logistics network, as well as its local cold supply chain infrastructure as well as convenience retail logistics network, they explained.
Both parties will also benefit from greater e-commerce integration between Tasco’s fulfilment solutions offering “e-Tower” with GDEX’s online shipping platform “myGDEX”, allowing coverage of major e-marketplaces and web stores to be integrated with express courier services.
They added that they will also benefit from greater marketing opportunities for both parties to new and existing multinational businesses through the provision of a wider range of logistics fulfilment services, and facilitate sharing of resources and increase economies of scale.
Both parties opined that the MoU serves as an opportunity for the companies to achieve the shared vision of enhanced and seamless logistics delivery services for customers.
“This collaboration is also expected to open up new areas of cooperation for greater marketing activities and business development, as well as cater for more complex logistics demand for customers who require, for example, inventory management, shorter delivery lead time, e-marketplace management and possibly temperature-controlled shipments,” they said.
In a separate statement, Tasco’s chief executive officer (CEO) Andy Lee said the expansion of last-mile logistics capability in Malaysia through the tie-up with GDEX will be a new growth driver for Tasco.
“We can better synergise our resources, especially in serving the 3,000 petrol kiosks and convenience retail outlets throughout the country, as well as providing a new avenue to market other services of Tasco, such as the cold supply chain logistics services,” he added
GDEX’s CEO and managing director Teong Teck Lean also said, “The team-up with Tasco and to be able to ride on the platform of e-Tower and our digital platform myGDEX, allowing the integration of the upstream and downstream resources along the logistics supply chain will give us the ability to provide a better express delivery experience for our customers.”
GDEX closed 2.5 sen or 5.88% higher at 45 sen, valuing the company at RM2.54 billion. Meanwhile, Tasco closed 35 sen or 14.4% higher at RM2.78, valuing the company at RM556 million.

article 2
KUALA LUMPUR (April 12): GDEX Bhd is collaborating with electronic prescription (e-prescription) telemedicine provider DOC2US and community-based pharmacy Alpro Pharmacy for secure and real-time tracking of medication.
In a joint statement today, the firms said patients who opt for doorstep delivery of their medication can track their barcoded medication from GDEX in real time to better time their availability in receiving their medication.
GDEX chief operating officer Caren Chong said its courier staff have been internally trained to handle the delivery and manage the storage of medication.
“Coupled with our barcoded tracking system, we are able to ensure that the right medication is delivered to the right patient, and most importantly, in the right condition,” she said.
DOC2US chief executive officer Dr Raymond Choy said the strategic collaboration involving DOC2US, Alpro Pharmacy and GDEX will not only enhance their back-end processes and productivity but, more importantly, provide a better patient experience in medication delivery.
“This also enables us to provide a one-stop solution for patients; from digital healthcare, pharmaceutical supplies, to logistics,” he said.
Meanwhile, Alpro Pharmacy group marketing director Lee Yin Chen said unlike other goods, medication needs to be handled with proper care and under strict guidelines.
“Dispensing medication through delivery while maintaining a high commitment on medication safety can be a challenge,” said Lee.
Choy said there are more than 300 authorised pharmacies adopting electronic dispensing/prescribing solutions.
“We target to onboard 1,000 pharmacy outlets this year so that we can further shorten the delivery time nationwide.
“Gradually, we will also offer this seamless medication delivery service to all of our authorised pharmacies this year,” he said.
He added that at present, there are same-day deliveries for minor ailments in the Klang Valley, Penang, Seremban, Melaka, Johor Bahru, Kota Kinabalu and Kuching.
At 2.31pm, GDEX rose 1.33% or 0.5 sen to 38 sen, valuing it at RM2.14 billion.

article 3
KUALA LUMPUR (April 26): GDEX Bhd aims to be a pure-play last-mile delivery company with regional presence.
It will also start to look into investment in real assets, such as land and warehouses, and potentially create an industrial real estate investment trust (REIT) in future.
GDEX on Dec 22, 2020 changed its official name from GD Express Carrier Bhd to GDEX Bhd to mark a new growth phase of the group.
In line with the rebranding exercise, GDEX said it wants to transform its current business while building more core businesses to ensure the growth trajectory of the group.
In a corporate presentation following the name change, GDEX said it will accelerate growth in both organic and inorganic ways to create value for all stakeholders.
GDEX said to fuel the growth of the group, it will develop more new products and business segments, adding that digital and technology competency are the focus for developments.
On its new products offerings, GDEX said it aims to provide more comprehensive digital solutions for customers.
The firm said to build new business segments, it plans to create additional revenue streams and profit centres to drive the growth of the group.
GDEX said investment for inorganic growth includes strengthening the current core business by investing in strategic areas.
The firm said it will focus on its cash flow and profitability.
It said it will expand its business portfolio inorganically to accelerate growth.
GDEX explained it will expand further in the logistics sector by moving into forwarding services, customs clearance and the cold chain, which are very synergistic with the last-mile business.
From there, the group can further expand into the land, air and sea cargo business, it said.
In a text message to the theedgemarkets.com, GDEX managing director and group chief executive officer (CEO) Teong Teck Lean said the remodelling of the group will be similar to in the early 2000s.
“We want to be high-growth again,” he said.
When Teong Teck Lean became the CEO of fledgling courier outfit in 2000, it was an ailing company running at a loss, with a lack of self-belief and low morale even among its shareholders.
Teong said technology is very key to the group’s future expansion.
He explained that with the in-house-built IT department, and investment in Web Bytes, the group can expand the business into the technology solution development segment.
“With presence in the region, our know-how in supply chain management and our strength in IT, the group can expand into cross-border remittance and even look into the financing business to assist our customers.
“These are financial-sector related,” he said.
Teong said with the infrastructure built across various segments of business, GDEX can offer a very comprehensive service to customers.
“GDEX can distribute consumer lines of products, such as healthcare products, communications equipment/parts and other consumer products, in the region,” he said.
At 9.48am, GDEX had risen 1.28% or half a sen to 39.5 sen, valuing it at RM2.23 billion.
Read also:The Edge: GDEX — Like The Phoenix Rising From The AshesGDEX ties up with DOC2US, Alpro Pharmacy to ease medication delivery
