Several workers from delivery company J&T Express have recorded an apology video to their employer and customers over a recording that showed some staff throwing around packages at a sorting centre in Perak over a pay dispute.
The company issued a statement yesterday that the incident was not due to a supposed pay cut as alleged online, and clarified that it was over a misunderstanding about bonus payments.
The workers confirmed this in the apology video posted on the Facebook page of the J&T Express Perak.
“We (are) from J&T Express Perak. Recently, a video went viral on social media showing that workers did not follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) and threw around customers’ items.
“We want to apologise and want to state that there are no internal issues or wage deductions between the company and employees of J&T Express Perak. We want to explain that we didn’t resort to a protest. We want to again apologise because we affected the name of the company and spoilt the items of Malaysians
“Again we want to apologise to the company and customers of J&T Express Malaysia,” the group of seven workers said, and promised customers that they would deliver the packages soonest.

According to a report by Google, Bain & Company and Singapore’s Temasek Holdings, Southeast Asia’s e-Commerce industry is the biggest factor for the region’s growth as it has grown from a GMV value of US$5.5 billion dollars in 2015 to US$38 billion in 2019. Now, the sector is on track to exceed US$150 billion by 2025. Since online shopping is helping both the people and the economy, J&T Express believes that delivery couriers are the unsung heroes on two wheels during this pandemic because it would not be possible for food, groceries and other essentials to be delivered to people without them.
Delivery couriers will always ensure that they keep their client’s trust and safety when it comes to their services. The Department of Information and Communications Technology obliged delivery couriers to strictly follow ECQ guidelines such as social distancing and ensure that they are equipped with facemasks, gloves, alcohol and other protective and precautionary equipment.
However, despite all the safety actions that the delivery couriers are doing to keep you safe, you can never really know where your package has been before getting into the hands of your delivery courier. Thus, it is best that you also do your part in fighting the virus.
According to a new study by MedRxiv, COVID-19 lives for 24 hours on cardboard and 72 hours on plastic and stainless steel, thus giving you the option of letting the virus die out first before taking out your package.
However, that would only be good news for non-perishable goods. Whether you choose to wait for the virus to die or not, you should always wash any surfaces that the outer packaging touched then throw away the packaging and wash your hands.
Sanitize your package immediately. If it is perishable goods, immediately put it in a container and put it in the refrigerator.
Delivery couriers are still vulnerable to the virus despite the safety precautions so you must keep minimal contact with the courier as much as possible. Always practice social distancing even in situations such as receiving a package and think of it as maintaining the safety of the courier, as well.
Some delivery couriers offer the option of having contactless delivery where you do not have to see the courier face-to-face and they leave your package at the doorstep or somewhere you choose, then the payment would be settled online.