Ninja Van Logistics Sdn Bhd country head Adzim Halim
During this time of pandemic and lockdowns, many of the logistics players, especially those backed by the right technologies, have come into their own.
Ninja Van is a case in point. Established in 2014 as a tech-enabled express logistics company that aimed to provide hassle-free delivery services for businesses of all sizes in Southeast Asia, it had to innovate and transform its products and services to be able to meet the changing needs of shippers and customers.
Today, it is one of the region’s largest and fastest growing last-mile logistics companies, with a network covering six countries across Southeast Asia — Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam. 
Ninja Van Logistics Sdn Bhd country head Adzim Halim says the company is making the most of its opportunities now, especially with more businesses opting to go online to deal with the present situation.
How has it adapted to the restrictions imposed under what is euphemistically known as the “new normal”? “We have offered an option for contactless deliveries where parcels can be placed at the recipient’s doorstep. Additionally, we now look to photo taking to replace the traditional signature ‘proof of delivery’ by utilising our drivers’ in-app photo-taking feature.”
Adzim adds that for cash-on-delivery parcels, the company allows a bank-in option to avoid the physical handling of cash.
Things haven’t been easy. “The Covid-19 pandemic and implementation of the MCO have been disruptive to our operational processes and supply chain operations. For example, the limited hours allowed for business operations also means that some of our delivery times have been reduced. 
“This was further compounded by Ramadan, where our delivery team had to break fast in addition to adhering to the SOPs (standard operating procedures) set out by the government,” he says.
But this was not all. The dip in passenger flights between West and East Malaysia during the MCO led to significant delays for deliveries in East Malaysia due to limited freighters and reduced overall cargo capacity.
“Speaking from an industry perspective, we feel that more facilities supporting last-mile operations need to be put in place, as there are only a limited number of facilities outside the Klang Valley that support this function.
“Furthermore, we also need more affordable air freight capacity between East Malaysia and West Malaysia that can spur growth, while also reducing friction for e-commerce between East and West Malaysia, especially at a time like this,” he adds.
Being on the ground and operating during this time, Ninja Van has personally witnessed the challenges businesses are facing, especially the small and medium enterprises.
“We are committed to continuously support and empower these businesses by providing them with a range of comprehensive logistics solutions. One example is our partnership with Heeladina, which is part of the Muslimah fashion industry. Ninja Van helped Heeladina grow during this time by providing it with convenient ways to connect its products with its customers, making for a seamless supply chain experience, integral to e-commerce and customer satisfaction.”
He says the company also recently joined forces with Riuh (a monthly curated creative platform based in Kuala Lumpur) as official logistics partner for its month-long virtual Raya market from April 28 to May 24 this year.
“Through this partnership, we were able to provide Riuh vendors with two exclusive packages for shipping throughout Malaysia and to Singapore as well. We also helped these vendors set up their online shipper profiles,” says Adzim.
Being a self-styled tech-enabled company, technology has always played a large part in its offerings. For instance, he says, it constantly utilises various forms of machine learning to improve its map coordinates based on addresses given by the recipients to improve its drivers’ routes.
“We will continue to explore new and innovative ways to mechanise and automate our hub and station operations,” he adds.
Adzim says moving forward, Ninja Van will strategically diversify its operations and fleet types to support the wider range of businesses that are making their transition online. “At the end of the day, Ninja Van is a tech-enabled logistics company and will continue to use technology to drive business agility while operating in a volatile environment. We believe that our ability to adapt is what will continue to set us apart from the rest.”

article 2
Lavneesh Arora -- Director of Market Development, Shippit
Hot on the heels of moving into the Singapore market, Australian logistics tech start-up Shippit is expanding into Malaysia, which it has identified as having one of the fastest growing e-commerce markets in Southeast Asia.
It is partnering regional-serving courier Ninja Van, making the latter’s cash on delivery (COD) capabilities accessible to the unbanked and underbanked populations in Malaysia and throughout Southeast Asia.
“With 83% if its population making purchases online, Malaysia has the highest percentage of digital customers in the region, and an e-commerce market valued at approximately US$4 billion in 2020,” the company said in a press release.
It added that this figure is expected to double to US$8.1 billion in four years, making Malaysia one of the largest and fastest-growing markets in Southeast Asia.
Shippit director of market development, Lavneesh Arora, observed: “Malaysia is experiencing a surge in online retail transactions, which started when the Movement Control Order (MCO) was implemented earlier this year to curb the spread of COVID-19.
While this is a great opportunity, this brings another challenge to the fast-growing e-commerce market, as many have not been able to adapt, causing delays and negative customer experiences.”
Although Malaysians are generally digitally-savvy with an internet penetration of 80.1% and mobile commerce accounting for 47%, according to the press release, only 45% of the population is fully banked and there are some 12 million people in Malaysia who are underbanked and unbanked, with a preference for cash payments.
Ninja Van Ceo Adzim Halim added: “Through our partnership with Shippit, we will be offering Malaysians the option of Cash On Delivery (COD), thus opening up another payment method to the underbanked end customers, and allowing e-commerce merchants to reach a previously untapped segment of the market.”
As a fast-growing startup taking on Asia, Shippit has set its sights on improving retail logistics in countries like the Philippines and Indonesia. To accelerate its growth ambitions across Southeast Asia during the e-commerce boom, the company is evaluating whether it should go on a capital raising excess of in excess of RM30 million this year.
Shippit is a scalable shipping platform that can be used by enterprise-level firms, fast-growing small and medium enterprises (SMEs), as well as e-commerce businesses just starting out. It unifies order fulfilment across sales channels and leverages its proprietary allocation algorithm to connect retailers to the best delivery partner for every order.
Founded in 2014 in Australia, the logistics Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) company has raised almost US$10 million, led by Asian investment firm Aura Group.
By using automation and machine learning to simplify the order fulfilment process, Shippit serves more than 6,000 customers a month across Australia, New Zealand, and Southeast Asia, powering delivery for Sephora and CottonOn, among thousands of other leading retailers.
It recently announced the launch of its Southeast Asian headquarters in Singapore, partnering with Shopify regionally and SingPost in Singapore.

article 3
The recently raised funds will be used to expand Ninja Van’s fleet to achieve full nationwide coverage by the end of 2018. Photo by Reuters
KUALA LUMPUR: Singapore-based logistics provider Ninja Van, which reportedly raised some US$85 million (RM336.6 million) in funding last month, aims to drive deeper into Malaysian markets by tripling the number of collection and drop-off points.
“At present, we have 200 points which are all located in the Klang Valley,” said the group’s country head for Malaysia Adzim Halim.
“We plan to establish footholds in Johor Baru, Penang, Melaka, Negeri Sembilan and Kuantan.”
He said the recently raised funds would also be used to expand the group’s fleet in order to achieve full nationwide coverage by the end of 2018. Its fleet currently serves only Peninsular Malaysia.
In addition, the logistics start-up will deploy capital towards investment in sortation and warehousing assets, Adzim told The Edge Financial Daily in an email interview.
“We’re looking to improve our sorting capacity by at least four times what it is now by investing in an automated parcel-sorting machine,” he said. The group is currently in talks with robotics companies for a tailor-made integrated solution.
Although Ninja Van declined to disclose the exact amount it raised from its Series C fundraising, which was concluded on Jan 23, Reuters cited a source as saying that about US$85 million was raised.
Tech in Asia, meanwhile, reported that the group had secured over US$87 million, noting that this was one of highest amounts raised by companies in the region. The amount is more than the US$65 million raised by Grab in 2014 but slightly below the US$90 billion raised by iflix in March 2017.
In total, Ninja Van is estimated to have received more than US$115.5 million to date, with its latest investor being the DPDgroup, one of the largest international parcel delivery networks in Europe.
In a press release, Ninja Van said the DPDgroup delivers some four million parcels daily for over 360,000 customers to over 230 countries.
Ninja Van’s earlier investors include private equity firms The Abraaj Group, Taiwan-based ACE Capital, B Capital Group, YJ Capital and Monk’s Hill Ventures.
Launched in 2014, Ninja Van currently has a presence in Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines and Vietnam, and is “currently profitable in some markets and working towards establishing its revenue streams in others,” Adzim said.
A quick check on Ninja Logistics Sdn Bhd’s financial statements show that the company’s revenue for financial year 2016 (FY16) soared more than five times to RM6.77 million from RM913,589 in FY15.
However, its loss after tax widened to RM6.09 million in FY16 versus RM1.07 million in FY15.
Going forward, Adzim said that the group’s main challenge would be to maintain the growth trajectory it saw in 2017.
“Otherwise, the challenge will be how we manage the ever-growing spike in volumes during peak periods (namely November and December),” he said, noting that growing Ninja Van’s fleet size and network of collection points are aimed at alleviating the peak pressure.
The group foresees an increasing need for delivery services by online sellers as some 30% of e-commerce transactions in Southeast Asia are from Malaysia, according to a 2016 report by consulting firm Bain & Company. A recent survey by one of Ninja Van Malaysia’s e-commerce partners, 11street, found that more men shop online compared to women, and East Malaysians are 2.6 times more likely to shop online than those in Peninsular Malaysia.
“Fifty-nine per cent of online shoppers purchase at least once a month, and 80% of them shop on their smartphones,” said Adzim.
 
