

The company's investment in digital and extensive delivery fleet enables it to process and deliver orders to an industry-leading volume of customers
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, Dec. 17, 2020 /PRNewswire/ -- Based on its recent analysis of the E-Commerce and logistics service market, Frost & Sullivan recognizes Pos Laju with the 2020 Malaysia E-Commerce Logistics Service Provider of the Year and 2020 Malaysia Express Logistics Service Provider of the Year awards. Its best-in-class facilities, broad range of products, strong network, and experienced workforce have enabled the company to consistently provide reliable, cost-effective services that present sustainability benefits for itself and its customers. With more than 200 branches nationwide, Pos Laju has established itself as the leading express and delivery service provider in Malaysia and the best in many logistics services.
Its best-in-class facilities, broad range of products, strong network, and experienced workforce have enabled the company to consistently provide reliable, cost-effective services that present sustainability benefits for itself and its customers. With more than 200 branches nationwide, Pos Laju has established itself as the leading express and delivery service provider in Malaysia and the best in many logistics services.
"Pos Laju is the courier arm of the Pos Malaysia Group which offers express parcel delivery services. The Group has an extensive courier network infrastructure, with more than 1,500 primary channels of service delivery that include 99 branches, 39 kiosks, 162 agents spread across the country," said Gopal R, Global Vice President of the Transportation & Logistics Practice at Frost & Sullivan.  To date, Pos Laju has established about 139 EziBox, 100 EziDrop, and 19 EziDrive-Thru, and is targeting another 3,000 touchpoints via partner operator networks in the near future."
The company has set up a new integrated processing center (IPC2) at KLIA that can process 230,000 parcels per day. With its existing IPC1 and IPC2, Pos Laju recorded the greatest processing capacity in Malaysia at 530,000 parcels per day. It has ensured delivery of sufficient manpower and an in-house fleet to provide efficient, uninterrupted services to its customers. In 2019, the company's fleet of 3,020 delivery vehicles (trailers, prime movers, lorries, three freighter aircraft, two bulk carrier vessels) as well as 6,599 motorcycles recorded delivery of 59.8 million parcels and 175.6 million parcels per annum for each vehicle type.
More than 700 postmen have been deployed in numerous rural areas and islands, reaching 241,000 villagers nationwide. The company has increased the frequency of flights from Peninsular to East Malaysia to transport more items back and forth. Expanding its digital capabilities, Pos Laju introduced SendParcel: a digital service that empowers customers to check delivery rates, book a delivery, and generate consignment notes online. It also allows eCommerce businesses to initiate bulk orders for domestic and international delivery. With this platform, Pos Laju aims to broaden its footprint, especially among SMEs and micro SMEs that account for more than 98% of its business in Malaysia.
"Pos Laju focuses on the entire supply chain ecosystem and services as  best practices so it can manage its clients' and its own needs better," noted Gopal. "Pos Laju stands out among other market participants for its extensive product portfolio. The company has set strategic plans to strengthen its facilities and enable even greater operational efficiency by acquiring improved tools and supporting digital transformation that will result in better service quality for its customers."
Each year, Frost & Sullivan presents this award to the company that has  maintained consistently high standards of service quality that resulted in trusted and strategic relationships. The company has leveraged on customer feedback, demonstrated superior speed/timeliness, ensured close to frictionless interaction, delivered outstanding price/performance value, offered a rich customer purchase/ownership experience, and raised its overall brand equity.
Frost & Sullivan Best Practices awards recognize companies in a variety of regional and global markets for demonstrating outstanding achievements and superior performance in areas such as leadership, technological innovation, customer service, and strategic product development. Industry analysts compare market participants and measure performance through in-depth interviews, analysis, and extensive secondary research to identify best practices in the industry.

Dear Valued Customers,

We would like to inform our customers that our International Express Service will resume operations to more international destinations beginning 23 April 2021, as follows:
The service will be available for international documents and merchandise with a temporary additional surcharge imposed, to accommodate the increase in commercial airfreight cost, and as part of the necessary air network adjustments during the pandemic.
Customers may also opt to use our premium AsiaXpress service for deliveries to more than 200 countries worldwide. Our AsiaXpress service is available across selected pos offices and Pos Laju outlets nationwide.
For details, kindly log on to www.pos.com.my/faq. For enquiries, kindly reach out to us via AskPos. Thank you.

TO manage the change in trends in terms of consumer’s buying behaviour and to remain competitive, companies need to keep up with the times.
That said, Pos Malaysia’s new digital platform SendParcel by Pos Laju is hoping to achieve two million parcels monthly by 2021.
“Pos Laju SendParcel was launched over a year ago to support the changing trend in customer buying behaviour from physically going to retail stores to buying goods online, ” said Pos Malaysia Group chief executive officer Syed Md Najib.
“Our courier business is a key segment that generates sustainable revenue for Pos Malaysia but the problem then was, we were still conducting business the conventional way by requiring customers to walk in to our Pos Laju outlets, while other businesses were online and required quick turnaround due to the high demand from customers.”
The number of registered users surpassed 86,000 subscribers within a year and from October 2019 to July 2020, Pos Laju SendParcel has successfully shipped more than 3.3 million parcels in total and generated RM21.7mil in revenue.
Pos Malaysia aims to achieve a revenue of RM30mil by the end of this year.
The establishment of the online shipping platform was indeed timely as Pos Malaysia would not have survived the movement control order restrictions during the initial stages of the Covid-19 pandemic.
With a substantial increase in online purchases during that time, Pos Laju SendParcel provided the right platform to deliver customer purchases right to their home addresses.
Syed added that Pos Malaysia went full steam ahead into its digitalisation and transformation plans to unlock value for its customers, tapping into the booming e-commerce market while meeting evolving customer demands.
Embracing digital innovation is also the only way to improve service efficiency and enhance customer experience.
“The rapid adoption of technology has brought about new challenges to our business and Pos Malaysia knew that it must adapt to digitalisation, to remain relevant in the industry and fulfil the changing behaviour of our customers.”
Concurrently, Pos Malaysia saw the arrival of global players with huge fundings and technological capabilities.
Therefore, it was a race against time for Pos Malaysia’s team to face the challenge at hand to bring forward a solid digital proposition into the market.
“We knew that we needed to act fast to avoid being irrelevant in the industry. The pressure was high, but we were confident that the team would be able to create a digital platform that could compete and excel in the market, ” he added.
Pos Laju SendParcel was introduced to the public in August 2019, providing the desired customer convenience, particularly for small and medium enterprises (SMEs).
Apart from 24-hour access and fast order placements, customers are offered best parcel rates, instant pricing quotes, free pick-up service, auto-generated consignment note including ease of shipment reporting and tracking.
In January 2020, Pos Malaysia expanded the service by offering international deliveries to more than 200 countries worldwide, connecting local SMEs and e-commerce businesses with overseas markets.
“By enhancing our reach internationally through Pos Laju SendParcel, Malaysian businesses can connect with international clients and expand their footprint across the globe, while enjoying affordable rates. Pos Malaysia remains committed to providing convenience and opening new frontiers and opportunities for customers, ” Syed said.
As for PosLaju SendParcel offerings, Syed said that Pos Malaysia aims to improve their services even further via constant feedback from users to ensure that Pos Malaysia continues to provide the best customer experience.
To complement the Pos Laju SendParcel service, Pos Malaysia also introduced automation and other digital enhancements to ensure safe and timely deliveries.
To date, Pos Malaysia has 28 distribution centres fitted with semi-automated sorting systems which reduces manual workload and streamline workflow for maximum efficiency. Pos Malaysia will also install four additional distribution centres with the semi-automated sorting systems by end of this year.
Pos Malaysia has seen immediate benefits to its processing capacity and speed where it is now able to process 60% more items – bringing down the total processing time by one to two hours per day – enabling the company to be on track with its aim to process one million parcels daily by the end of 2021.
“We will continue on our investment efforts to exceed customer expectations through a robust and scalable digital platform, ” Syed concluded.