KUALA LUMPUR (April 12): GDEX Bhd is collaborating with electronic prescription (e-prescription) telemedicine provider DOC2US and community-based pharmacy Alpro Pharmacy for secure and real-time tracking of medication.
In a joint statement today, the firms said patients who opt for doorstep delivery of their medication can track their barcoded medication from GDEX in real time to better time their availability in receiving their medication.
GDEX chief operating officer Caren Chong said its courier staff have been internally trained to handle the delivery and manage the storage of medication.
“Coupled with our barcoded tracking system, we are able to ensure that the right medication is delivered to the right patient, and most importantly, in the right condition,” she said.
DOC2US chief executive officer Dr Raymond Choy said the strategic collaboration involving DOC2US, Alpro Pharmacy and GDEX will not only enhance their back-end processes and productivity but, more importantly, provide a better patient experience in medication delivery.
“This also enables us to provide a one-stop solution for patients; from digital healthcare, pharmaceutical supplies, to logistics,” he said.
Meanwhile, Alpro Pharmacy group marketing director Lee Yin Chen said unlike other goods, medication needs to be handled with proper care and under strict guidelines.
“Dispensing medication through delivery while maintaining a high commitment on medication safety can be a challenge,” said Lee.
Choy said there are more than 300 authorised pharmacies adopting electronic dispensing/prescribing solutions.
“We target to onboard 1,000 pharmacy outlets this year so that we can further shorten the delivery time nationwide.
“Gradually, we will also offer this seamless medication delivery service to all of our authorised pharmacies this year,” he said.
He added that at present, there are same-day deliveries for minor ailments in the Klang Valley, Penang, Seremban, Melaka, Johor Bahru, Kota Kinabalu and Kuching.
At 2.31pm, GDEX rose 1.33% or 0.5 sen to 38 sen, valuing it at RM2.14 billion.